Document external PostgreSQL earlier in the installation UX (#3783)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_configuring-installation.adoc

If required, you can disable Puppet agent on {ProjectServer} using the `--puppet-runmode=none` option.
endif::[]

> ifdef::katello,satellite,orcharhino[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Prerequisites

* If you want to use an external PostgreSQL database, PostgreSQL must be installed on your host. 
For instructions, see xref:Preparing_for_using_external_databases_{context}[].

> endif::[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Procedure

. Depending on what type of database you want to use on your {Project} deployment, do one of the following:
+
--
* To install {ProjectServer} with the default local database, enter the following command with any additional options that you want to use:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {installer-scenario} \
--foreman-initial-organization "_<My_Organization>_" \
--foreman-initial-location "_<My_Location>_" \
--foreman-initial-admin-username _<admin_user_name>_ \
--foreman-initial-admin-password _<admin_password>_
----

> ifdef::katello,satellite,orcharhino[]

Reviewer: You can leave this out
```suggestion
```

** To install {ProjectServer} with an external PostgreSQL server, enter the following command:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {installer-scenario} \
--foreman-initial-organization "_<My_Organization>_" \
--foreman-initial-location "_<My_Location>_" \
--foreman-initial-admin-username _<admin_user_name>_ \
--foreman-initial-admin-password _<admin_password>_ \

> --katello-candlepin-manage-db false \
> --katello-candlepin-db-host _<postgres.example.com>_ \
> --katello-candlepin-db-name _<candlepin>_ \
> --katello-candlepin-db-user _<candlepin>_ \
> --katello-candlepin-db-password _<Candlepin_Password>_ \
> --foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-manage-postgresql false \
> --foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-host _<postgres.example.com>_ \
> --foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-db-name pulpcore \
> --foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-user pulp \
> --foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-password _<Pulpcore_Password>_ \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ifdef::katello,satellite,orcharhino[]
--katello-candlepin-manage-db false \
--katello-candlepin-db-host _<postgres.example.com>_ \
--katello-candlepin-db-name _<candlepin>_ \
--katello-candlepin-db-user _<candlepin>_ \
--katello-candlepin-db-password _<Candlepin_Password>_ \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-manage-postgresql false \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-host _<postgres.example.com>_ \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-db-name pulpcore \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-user pulp \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-password _<Pulpcore_Password>_ \
endif::[]
```

--foreman-db-manage false \
--foreman-db-host _<postgres.example.com>_ \
--foreman-db-database _<foreman>_ \
--foreman-db-username _<foreman>_ \
--foreman-db-password _<Foreman_Password>*_
----
+
To also enable encrypted connections for these external databases, use the following command instead:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {installer-scenario} \
--foreman-initial-organization "_<My_Organization>_" \
--foreman-initial-location "_<My_Location>_" \
--foreman-initial-admin-username _<admin_user_name>_ \
--foreman-initial-admin-password _<admin_password>_ \

> --katello-candlepin-manage-db false \
> --katello-candlepin-db-host _<postgres.example.com>_ \
> --katello-candlepin-db-name _<candlepin>_ \
> --katello-candlepin-db-user _<candlepin>_ \
> --katello-candlepin-db-password _<Candlepin_Password>_ \
> --foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-manage-postgresql false \
> --foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-host _<postgres.example.com>_ \
> --foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-db-name pulpcore \
> --foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-user pulp \
> --foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-password _<Pulpcore_Password>_ \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ifdef::katello,satellite,orcharhino[]
--katello-candlepin-manage-db false \
--katello-candlepin-db-host _<postgres.example.com>_ \
--katello-candlepin-db-name _<candlepin>_ \
--katello-candlepin-db-user _<candlepin>_ \
--katello-candlepin-db-password _<Candlepin_Password>_ \
--katello-candlepin-db-ssl true \
--katello-candlepin-db-ssl-ca _<My_CA_Certificate>_ \
--katello-candlepin-db-ssl-verify true \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-manage-postgresql false \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-host _<postgres.example.com>_ \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-db-name pulpcore \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-user pulp \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-password _<Pulpcore_Password>_ \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-ssl true \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-ssl-root-ca _<My_CA_Certificate>_ \
endif::[]
```

--foreman-db-manage false \
--foreman-db-host _<postgres.example.com>_ \
--foreman-db-database _<foreman>_ \
--foreman-db-username _<foreman>_ \
--foreman-db-password _<Foreman_Password>*_
--foreman-db-root-cert _<My_CA_Certificate>_ \

> --foreman-db-sslmode verify-full \

Reviewer: If you move the options below then this becomes the last option and shouldn't have a backslash at the end.
```suggestion
--foreman-db-sslmode verify-full
```

--foreman-db-host _<postgres.example.com>_ \
--foreman-db-database _<foreman>_ \
--foreman-db-username _<foreman>_ \

> --foreman-db-password _<Foreman_Password>*_

Reviewer: Stray `*` here
```suggestion
--foreman-db-password _<Foreman_Password>_
```

> --foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-ssl true \
> --foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-ssl-root-ca _<My_CA_Certificate>_ \
> --katello-candlepin-db-ssl true \
> --katello-candlepin-db-ssl-ca _<My_CA_Certificate>_ \
> --katello-candlepin-db-ssl-verify true \

Reviewer: Please order these together with the other options so we group each connection. I've included them in the above suggestion
```suggestion
```

----

> endif::[]

Reviewer: And then this becomes redundant.
```suggestion
```

If required, you can disable Puppet agent on {ProjectServer} using the `--puppet-runmode=none` option.
endif::[]

ifdef::katello,satellite,orcharhino[]
.Prerequisites

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

suggestion: drop unnecessary whitespace.

> * If you want to use an external PostgreSQL database, PostgreSQL must be installed on your host. For instructions, see xref:using-external-databases[Using external databases with {Project}].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If you want to use an external PostgreSQL database, PostgreSQL must be installed on your host.
For more information, see xref:using-external-databases[].
```

suggestion: split line by sentence to align to our "one sentence per line" convention.

FYI: If we use xrefs, we omit the title. This is handled by asciidoctor itself & simplifies maintenance.

Reviewer 2: Another suggestion: Maybe reword "on your host"? I wonder if people could confuse this with their EL9 host for their Foreman/Katello instance. Maybe "external database host"?

> * If you want to use an external PostgreSQL database, PostgreSQL must be installed on your host. For instructions, see {AdministeringDocURL}installing-postgresql_admin[Installing PostgreSQL] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If you want to use an external PostgreSQL database, PostgreSQL must be installed on your host. 
For instructions, see {AdministeringDocURL}installing-postgresql_admin[Installing PostgreSQL] in _{AdministeringDocTitle}_.
```
One sentence per line rule. :)

+
The script displays its progress and writes logs to `{installer-log-file}`.

> ifdef::katello,satellite,orcharhino[]

Reviewer: There's an ordering issue with how it's written now that can lead users to still have the local database installed.

First we tell users to run the installer which will install a local PostgreSQL. Then we tell them to point their installation to a remote DB server. Now you still have an unused local PostgreSQL running.

Perhaps we should tell users to append the options mentioned below to the above command, similar to the SSL options. Another option is to make the command below complete (add `--foreman-initial-*` options to it) and run it **instead**.

I'll leave it up to writers to decide what's best for the reader.

> . Optional: If you want to use an external PostgreSQL database in your {Project} deployment, use the following command:

Reviewer 2: Trying to avoid "following command":

```suggestion
. Optional: If you want to use an external PostgreSQL database in your {Project} deployment, configure your {ProjectServer}:
```

```suggestion
. Optional: Configure your {ProjectServer} to use an external PostgreSQL database:
```

I am unsure if my suggestions improve anything. Your call.

> . Optional: If you want to use an external PostgreSQL database in your {Project} deployment, configure your {ProjectServer}:

Reviewer: Technically we have 3 databases. I wonder if this is better:
```suggestion
. Optional: If you want to use an external PostgreSQL server in your {Project} deployment, configure your {ProjectServer}:
```

+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-installer} \
--katello-candlepin-manage-db false \
--katello-candlepin-db-host _postgres.example.com_ \
--katello-candlepin-db-name candlepin \
--katello-candlepin-db-user candlepin \
--katello-candlepin-db-password _Candlepin_Password_ \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-manage-postgresql false \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-host _postgres.example.com_ \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-db-name pulpcore \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-user pulp \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-password _Pulpcore_Password_ \
--foreman-db-manage false \
--foreman-db-host _postgres.example.com_ \
--foreman-db-database foreman \
--foreman-db-username foreman \
--foreman-db-password _Foreman_Password_
----
+

> To enable the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol for these external databases, add also the following options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol for these external databases, append the following options:
```

suggestion; your call.

> To enable the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol for these external databases, append the following options:

Reviewer: Perhaps we shouldn't emphasize SSL but emphasize encrypted connections? The technical implementation is SSL (or really, TLS these days) but I like focusing on the higher level goal.

+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----

> --foreman-db-root-cert <path_to_CA>

Reviewer 2: This was copied over, so my suggestion is slightly out of scope:

```suggestion
--foreman-db-root-cert _My_CA_Certificate_
```

Alternative: `_Path_To_My_CA_Certificate_`.

Same applies to line 90 and 92.

ifdef::katello,satellite,orcharhino[]
** To install {ProjectServer} with an external PostgreSQL server, enter the following command:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-installer} \
--foreman-initial-organization "_My_Organization_" \
--foreman-initial-location "_My_Location_" \
--foreman-initial-admin-username _admin_user_name_ \
--foreman-initial-admin-password _admin_password_
--katello-candlepin-manage-db false \
--katello-candlepin-db-host _postgres.example.com_ \
--katello-candlepin-db-name candlepin \
--katello-candlepin-db-user candlepin \
--katello-candlepin-db-password _Candlepin_Password_ \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-manage-postgresql false \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-host _postgres.example.com_ \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-db-name pulpcore \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-user pulp \
--foreman-proxy-content-pulpcore-postgresql-password _Pulpcore_Password_ \
--foreman-db-manage false \
--foreman-db-host _postgres.example.com_ \
--foreman-db-database foreman \
--foreman-db-username foreman \
--foreman-db-password _Foreman_Password_
----
+

> To enable encrypted connections for these external databases, append the following options:

Author: Perhaps by providing the entire command instead? :-) https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/pull/3783/commits/676b7592bb7ce39b4371ab40174a41eae4c401c3
